notebooks/notes.md, before:

# General notes

- Programs that are developed as tax credits or subsidies to spur innovation at the federal level can be controlled through time fixed effects, however, provincial programs are more difficult to control for.

## Covariates notes

- Including average actual hours worked in the model and total actual hours worked together yields significant results for both variables. This is rather strange. 

- Wholesale sales and manufacturing sales are not relevant, I rather keep imports. 

-  Include a time trend, like Nick says. 

-  Otherwise, we can include an interaction of provinces and periods which had some sort of policy change. 

## To dos

-  ln +1 

- no controls

- defendable controls

- all controls (extended controls)

- for patents and maybe robustness checks with other dep. variables

- focus on one period that makes sense. 

- quarter level study. 

## Notes about missing data

- No data for territories 

## For writing

- In Canada patents are for the whole country, so its hard to evalute impact in a quasi experiment. But R&D tax credits, do they generate more patents? This could make sense.
    - Should review some literature on this.

- AITC also targeted movie production. these dont produce patents, argue that.

- Other similar papers:
    - Agarwal (SRED in Canada)
    - The impact of regional investment incentives on employment and productivity Daly
    - Czarnitzki the only paper to actually see innovation output. 

- AITC implementation date is a bit "fuzzy".
    - Investments made beginning january 2017
    - But the program was announced in 2016
    - And expenses were elegible (maybe) beginning april 2016

- Talk about how patents were separated by section code. This is valuable but should compare to studies in Canada that have done this.
    - Most use survey data. 

- One of the most important things is that Canada has one of the most generous R&D tax credits in the world.

- Title: 
    - Offsetting innovation? The impact of the Alberta Investment Tax Credit on intellectual property
    - Do fiscal incentives affect innovation? Evidence from the Alberta Investment Tax Credit

- Complications & further research
    - DD weights weird, event study better
    - IPC sections to brooad, must be more specific, but lose power
    - should consider section A more specifically, survey dat.a 
    - Patent applications do not necessarily mean innovation. How many of these get granted? Data. In introduction, likely.

Commit message:

outline of conclusions and institutional context

notebooks/notes.md, after:

# General notes

- Programs that are developed as tax credits or subsidies to spur innovation at the federal level can be controlled through time fixed effects, however, provincial programs are more difficult to control for.

## Covariates notes

- Including average actual hours worked in the model and total actual hours worked together yields significant results for both variables. This is rather strange. 

- Wholesale sales and manufacturing sales are not relevant, I rather keep imports. 

-  Include a time trend, like Nick says. 

-  Otherwise, we can include an interaction of provinces and periods which had some sort of policy change. 

## To dos

-  ln +1 

- no controls

- defendable controls

- all controls (extended controls)

- for patents and maybe robustness checks with other dep. variables

- focus on one period that makes sense. 

- quarter level study. 

## Notes about missing data

- No data for territories 

## For writing

- Patent applications do not necessarily mean innovation. How many of these get granted? Data. In introduction, likely. 

- Time series of patents filed, and patents granted. In institutional context. 

- Contributions:
    - Do R&D tax credits spur innovation products? Patents specifically?
    - Talk about how patents were separated by section code. This is valuable but should compare to studies in Canada that have done this. Most use survey data. 
    - One of the most important things is that Canada has one of the most generous R&D tax credits in the world.
    - IPC division interesting. 

- Mechanism:
    - Firms do not protect their IP, use papers and also the data.
    - Patents less common, industrial designs and trademarks more common.
    - Over the last 10 years, patent filing activity has decreased 2%, while trademarks and industrial designs increased a remarkable 44% and 54%, respectively.
    - From 2017 to 2019, 5.9% of businesses said that they had IP that they chose not to formally protect. This proportion was higher among firms engaged in research and development (24.4%).
    - Macro and mckenzie paper saying that Canada struggles with it's R&D ratio. So yeah, maybe AITC does impact R\&D which I do not observe, but that never really creates patents.

- In Canada patents are for the whole country, so its hard to evalute impact in a quasi experiment. But R&D tax credits, do they generate more patents? This could make sense.
    - Should review some literature on this.

- AITC also targeted movie production. these dont produce patents, argue that.

- Other similar papers:
    - Agarwal (SRED in Canada)
    - The impact of regional investment incentives on employment and productivity Daly
    - Czarnitzki the only paper to actually see innovation output, also Berube & MOHNEN
    - Estimating the Incremental Impacts of a Provincial R&D Tax Credit Brouillette 2013, BC no significant change in R\&D spending. 
    - Inelastic business demand for innovation in Canada. 

- AITC implementation date is a bit "fuzzy".
    - Investments made beginning january 2017
    - But the program was announced in 2016
    - And expenses were elegible (maybe) beginning april 2016

- Title: 
    - Offsetting innovation? The impact of the Alberta Investment Tax Credit on intellectual property
    - Do fiscal incentives affect innovation? Evidence from the Alberta Investment Tax Credit

- Complications & further research
    - DD weights weird, event study better
    - IPC sections to brooad, must be more specific, but lose power
    - should consider section A more specifically, survey dat.a
